Hey guys welcome back OK.
This is what we're going to talk about is creating a workflow for your content production.
Now what exactly do I mean.
I mean that we never you make content for your Instagram post whether it's a photo a motivational quote
a video even a story you have a set process where you go by now the only way you can possibly start
to grow your content production is like first understanding each step of the process isolating each
step trying to figure out better ways to improve and optimize each step.
And then learning how you can package and bundle each step together with other staps and then essentially
outsource it.
Now most people who do Instagram accounts run into this problem almost immediately which is that they
make a post.
OK great.
They make another post.
They're making other posts.
Ok great run around the time that you know two weeks later 5th or 6th post they start realizing that
it's actually really hard coming up with new stuff every single time.
For those of us who are not very self aware we're not detail oriented.
It might appear that we just have to come up with something new every single time we post.
That's not really the case.
Successful Instagram accounts have systems and they've systematized their process of making the same
repeatable content.
Now should you be concerned about using the same content over and over again.
No not really.
Number one people like consistency and some of the most popular accounts out there have it's consistent
pattern so they know what to expect every time they go to the account.
But of course you also have the option of breaking it up and trying out different things.
I do photos and videos.
OK.
But you can do anything you can do behind the scenes.
You can do employee highlights you can do promotional post you could do call to action post.
You can mix it up but you need to break down each process so you can understand it better and then design
it better.
So how exactly do you outline a workflow.
Well first of all what I like to do is outline what I have already done to create each post.
It's essential that you create your first couple post.
Otherwise you won't know what goes into each post.
So the first thing I'd do is just sit down and either think about what I did to say create a photo post
or video post or go and create one and write down every single thing I did.
So let's look at the workflow I have for creating photos.
OK.
So here we go.
It's about 20 steps.
Some of these skip over a little bit and I tried to drill down on some of the other ones.
So number one I usually go to brainy quote OK that's they have the most quotes on the Internet and I
consistently find good stuff there then what I do is I search for one of the following terms.
Now you probably recognize these terms are also hashtags I use frequently innovation product design
entrepreneurship leadership strategy and future.
These are all topics that I think my audience actually cares about and I think they're on brand so any
code that's in that general area is probably going to fit.
Now I said if no good ones are available and this might be the case after I make a lot of these then
I go search alternative sites.
Now do I have alternative sites.
No because I haven't actually exhausted brainy quo.
There's a lot of it.
So you just google search that is open Kanva you see me do this then what I do is a duplicate the old
quote template.
OK so I have a quote template I already use the same design for each one.
Now for some of you guys this might change.
Right.
You might be using different images every single time.
Maybe you don't use can mean use.
So maybe you go in there and you have your own search criteria to find different backgrounds.
Maybe you go into an stock photo or an splash and you grab something there and then you throw it in.
I've chosen to make a template out of this and you saw this way back in Section 1 I think because it
just saves me a lot of time and it's good for consistency.
What I do is I just change the quote OK so early made it all of you change the code and change the name
of the person on it.
Then I Axford it as a P and g y a p n g it just loads better it's not really a big deal then what I
do is they load it into Dropbox and I label it.
Now I've talked about this before but that's how I organize things.
And I use Dropbox because then I can access it on my phone but also when I work with other people they
can access it as well so I kind of have this master group of content in the cloud that everyone can
access anytime it's not stuck on one computer.
Now I've shown you what it looks like.
It just looks like this innovation station post and I split them into categories.
Now add other categories as I do other things that do giveaways.
I'll make a giveaways one if I start doing call the action post.
I'll do that.
But right now it's just that.
And then each one I break it down into different versions of the video and then individual clips.
OK so back to photos then what I usually do is open text edit or ever knew OK then what I do is I start
searching for interesting facts regarding the person who wrote the quote.
OK it's Steve Jobs it's pretty easy.
It's someone more obscure than I might have to read the Wikipedia page.
So I copy five facts into text editor Evernham it doesn't really matter that I rewrite the facts that
I have to be more concise and impactful and also to fit the voice of the account.
Sometimes the way people write it they write it for a blog or they write for their audience.
That's not the same as my own.
So I like to rewrite it so that what I do is I take that text and I copy it into Evernote and into text
at it.
And I saved that file to Dropbox so the reason why I do that is just because then I kind of everything
stored in one place then I can go to the dropbox folder and see here's the photo.
Also here is a text file with all the captions and everything I need.
Then what I do is either one of two things that go to later Graham and I schedule the post or I go to
Instagram and just post it just depending on when I produced it.
Then I schedule a post or I load it into Instagram then I copy the caption to notes remember.
Or you can do it in Evernote or bear doesn't really matters.
Make sure it's in one of those cloud services.
Then I add a mode and line breaks member have Weinberg set up to automatically run.
Then I copy it back into Instagram I post it at hash tags and the first comment then I add extra comments
as Moji.
Now this is pretty much an overview of it.
Now I can break this down quite a bit more I could explain where I get the hash tags right.
I could break it down as to where they are how often I should change them.
I also go into how I schedule posts right.
But that's kind of generic and I don't think it's really worth while I could say you know here is my
scheduling criteria and so the next available slot has to be this or I have to time it with photos because
I like to do two one to one posting patterns.
OK so now my video workflow looks like this and it's quite a bit more complicated.
So what I do is I go to Spring wise man for business insider.
Then I search for new technology.
OK.
Usually I just scan it or I use search terms then what I do is a copy the link of a story I like into
one of those core services like Evernote or bear down I find the web site for the company being covered.
That one's actually kind of important because I need their visual assets.
Then I summarize the story with five to 10 capstans it consists of one to two sentences you've seen
me do this before then I write 100 character full caption describing the story and my first impressions.
I like to editorialize that as I say then I write a call to action and I write that separately then
I write down a short description of video that is needed for each specific caption and then what I do
is I search stop video Web sites and YouTube for clips that match those descriptions.
OK.
If the sentence was talking about landfill usage I would say I need a video of a landfill.
OK then how would I get you.
As I got to search for that specifically and then I can't find the clip.
I can go back here and find a more creative interpretation I could show actual trash or could show someone
throwing something away.
Either way I then create a Dropbox folder for the post.
I saved the raw clips there.
I just like to have everything housed in one area.
Then I open final cut pro or Adobe Premiere depends on my PC I use premiere if I'm going back.
These final cut pro then I copy the clips onto the timeline.
So these are just raw clip like they're on it.
Then I reduced the clips to usable pieces of seven or nine seconds.
Then I had keyframes to the still images to add motion.
So otherwise it just ugly because it just an image motion than it actually is a little bit more visually
interesting.
Then I add text templates over video and images.
Now this is something I've previously established you if you doing text you should probably figure out
your text earlier on.
And what works good.
And then just reuse that over and over.
You shouldn't be reinventing your text every single time.
Otherwise again you're just going be driven crazy.
This is part of systematizing this and this is how you get out from under the workload of posting constantly.
Then I put AD music from pre-selected music.
So what I did for that one is I went to the YouTube royalty free section and I just downloaded a bunch
that fit the terms inspirational motivational.
I just threw them in a folder and then I just rotate through them because no one really cares about
the music but you do need music.
Then I preview it and adjust timing.
Seventy nine seconds doesn't work for every single thing.
OK.
Sometimes you need more time to read something and sometimes you need less time.
Then I add the outro sequence.
Then I export it as an MP for loaded in the drop box and I label it.
Then I put a text file with the captions and the full caption Plus the called action in the same folder
then I do pretty much the same thing open lawyer Graham and Instagram if I want to was scheduled for
later or posted.
Now the difference here with later Graham buffer.
I'm currently speaking is that they can't automatically post a video so it's slightly different.
Do the same thing.
I copy the caption to the notes at a Modise and line breaks copy and post it or set a reminder that
pose a it varies and then I do my hashtags and I Mowgli's and I'm done.
OK so how exactly did I put that together.
Well at this point in the course you've already posted.
At a minimum 10 things so you should have some idea of how you've done it and over time you get better
at it.
So over time I might come back here and change things and fix them and say I might use a different app
or I might run it through one more process at Add a watermark or whatever.
There's a lot of different little things bells and whistles that you can add.
The point is that you need to first write them out so that you can then start isolating each one figuring
out a better way to do it and then deciding whether or not you can get someone else to do it or you
can programmatically automate it.
OK.
In the next lecture what we're going to do is we're going to take our sample workflow and we're going
to break it down into similar chunks or usable chunks.
Then we're going to import them into Trello and I will show you how to use that.
And that's essentially the springboard that we're going to use to actually start a content production
process.
See the.